Vice President Biden:
Hello, everyone.
I hope you're having a safe and
enjoyable Memorial Day Weekend.
I've got some good
news for us today.
Not only is our economy
overall growing,
but one of the important sectors
of our economy is on the rise
again: the American
automobile industry.
Just a few days ago, on Tuesday,
Chrysler Corporation announced
that they were repaying the
taxpayers for the loans we gave
them when we came into office.
And this announcement came six
years ahead of schedule --
and just two years after
Chrysler Corporation emerged
from bankruptcy.
You know, and it's a sign of
what's happening throughout the
American automobile industry.
It's not just Chrysler.
Also this week, GM announced
that its Detroit Hamtramck
factory will run three
shifts for the first time its
26-year history.
You know, that's 2,500
more good, paying jobs.
In the words of Don
LaForest, of the UAW --
and I want to quote
him -- he said,
"It's mind-boggling that we can
go from near-extinction to full
employment in two years."
What you didn't get to hear in
my rendition of his quote is the
tone of his voice:
It was full of pride.
Genuine pride.
Because I can tell you he knows
-- as my dad used to say --
that a job is about a
lot more than a paycheck.
It's about dignity.
It's about respect.
And I heard the same pride, and
the same feeling of dignity,
when I called the Jefferson
North Chrysler plant in Detroit
the day Chrysler
paid back its debt.
I talked to a UAW worker
-- her name was Frances --
a line worker, who said her dad
had worked on that line before,
and that she had been out of
work for two-and-a-half years
before she was hired a
year ago back to the plant.
I got the same sense when I
went to Bonneville and Son,
a Chrysler dealership
in Manchester,
New Hampshire a couple days ago.
85 employees came out, stood
out there in the lot with me.
85 people.
All of whom knew and said,
had Chrysler liquidated,
had we not helped them,
they wouldn't have a job.
When President Obama
and I came into office,
we faced an auto industry
on the brink of extinction.
Total collapse.
At the time, many people thought
the President should just let GM
and Chrysler go under.
They didn't think the automobile
industry was essential to
America's future.
The President disagreed
-- and, in addition,
he wasn't willing to walk
away from the thousands of
hardworking UAW members who
worked at GM and Chrysler --
and in many cases, not
only all their lives,
but as second and third
generation employees.
And he certainly wasn't going
to abandon an industry that had
meant so much to our economy,
and so much to so many
for so long.
So, he said if GM and Chrysler,
and their management,
and all their shareholders were
willing to do the difficult work
of making themselves
more competitive,
we would support giving
them another chance.
And because of what we did,
the automobile industry is
rising again.
Manufacturing is coming back.
And our economy is recovering
and it's gaining traction.
But the thing is this: even
for a lot of people with jobs,
their wages aren't keeping pace
with prices of everything from
gas to groceries to health
care and college tuition.
That's why the President
and I remain focused on,
not just recovering
from this recession.
We're focused on making
sure that if you work hard,
play by the rules, you'll
be able to get ahead,
put your kids through
college, retire with dignity
and security.
Before I sign off, I just want
to mention once again Memorial
Day and remember what
this holiday's all about.
You know -- we still have tens
of thousands of troops deployed
in harm's way.
In days past, on Memorial Day,
we remembered heroes from former
wars -- but I think it's
absolutely essential that we all
remember today that thousands of
names have been added to those
memorials in the wars
that are still continuing.
Folks, all I ask you to do is,
what my wife Jill and Michelle
Obama have been asking, to reach
out to those families who have
someone deployed,
in your community.
Let them know you know.
Let them know you know the
sacrifice they're making.
Engage in -- as my wife would
say -- a single act of kindness.
Maybe invite them to your
barbecue this weekend.
Mow their lawn.
Offer to mow their
lawn next week.
Make it known that you
appreciate their sacrifice and
you're willing to lend a hand.
As I said, that's what Jill and
Michelle Obama are doing through
their Joining Forces initiative.
And that's what I hope all of us
will do every day as long as we
have a man or woman
deployed in harm's way.
Thank you for listening
and enjoy the holiday.